For this exercise, you are asked to segment the drop
off rate between pages on buy stuff.com.
Question number 1 asked you to determine the drop off rate
at each step in the buy things.com e-commerce bundle.
To see the drop off between pages, first,
we need to look at the pages and order
them as a user would experience them in the funnel.
In buy stuff.com, the funnel is between the pages;
homepage, search page, the payment page,
the payment confirmation page.
After we've ordered the pages,
we need to count the number of distinct events on each page.
Because this website has a simple flow,
every page is required of the user to complete a purchase.
Therefore, every page will be shown in the funnel,
and every page represents a user taking a new action.
Here is a count of every user who made it to each page in the funnel.
To calculate the actual drop off,
we can use a Quick Table Calculation of percent difference.
This shows us the percent change between counts.
Now, we can see the drop off rate between all steps.
We can move to question 2,
determine funnel conversion by user segment for devices, sexes, and months.
To segment the data,
we need to add a segment group to the rows to
determine a drop off rate for a given behavior and characteristic.
Let's start with sex.
Question 2 also asked which segments have
a higher average drop off rate between steps and other users,
and what such a drop off rate could indicate.
For males and females,
there is no real difference in drop off rate between steps,
49 percent versus 50 percent.
In the first step, 86 percent and 92 percent.
This indicates gender may not play a role
in whether a new user completes the shopping flow.
Now, let's look at device.
When we look at the device drop off rates,
we can see that desktop users have
a 10 percent higher drop off rate between the search and payment pages,
90 percent drop off on desktop versus 80 percent on mobile.
They also have a five percent higher drop off
rate between the payment and payment confirmation pages.
This may indicate areas for Desktop Experience Optimization.
Finally, let's look at months.
When looking at these drop off rates,
there is a large increase in drop off between landing and search pages,
which can be seen when comparing January and February to March and April,
drop off increases from about 40 percent to about 60 percent between the two pages.
Similarly, the drop off rate between search and payment pages
increases 10 percent from around 82 percent to around 92 percent.
This indicates a change occurred between February and
March that is impacting the new user funnel conversion.
The CEO should examine what changes occurred between February and March.
Perhaps a new feature introduced a bug or
a new marketing method is recruiting more users who are less likely to purchase.